
UNIT
preview
Outlook and Behavior
COMMUNICATION GOALS
1 Describe your personality 2 Discuss someone’s behavior 3 Compare perspectives on world problems 4 Discuss creative ways to achieve a goal A FRAME YOUR IDEAS Complete the quiz by writing your points in the circles. Then calculate your score.
B PAIR WORK Compare answers with a partner. Are your scores similar, or very different? Which
of you has the more optimistic, realistic, or pessimistic outlook on life, according to the quiz? C GROUP WORK Calculate the average score for the members of the class. On average, how optimistic, realistic, or pessimistic is your class?
When you
are introduced
to someone new, you... assume that person
is a nice person. 1 point keep an open mind
about whether you’ll
like each other. 2 points assume that person won’t like or respect you. 3 points
News about crime or disasters makes you... think about how
you can help. 1 point realize that sometimes bad
things happen. 2 points
feel very unsafe. 3 points
You wake up
in the middle of the night with a
stomachache. Your first thought is... “I’m sure it’s nothing. I’ll just go back to sleep.” 1 point “It’s probably nothing
serious. I’ll just take some medicine.” 2 points
“This could be serious. I’d better go to the doctor.” 3 points Your boss invites you to have lunch in
a restaurant. You say
to yourself... “I must be getting a
promotion or a raise. That’s really nice!” 1 point “My boss must like to
socialize with everyone
from time to time.” 2 points
“Uh-oh! There must be some problem with my work.” 3 points
How do you see the world? Do you have a positive or a negative outlook?
If someone unexpectedly knocks on your door, you think... “Great! It’s probably a
friend or a relative here
to surprise me.” 1 point “I wonder who that could be. I’ll go find out.” 2 points
“I’m not answering. It could be a
salesperson or even a criminal.” 3 points
You apply for your “dream job,” but you don’t get it. You think... “I guess this wasn’t really my dream job. I’ll find a better job
somewhere else.” 1 point “Oh, well. You win some and you lose some.” 2 points
“I’ll never get the job I want.” 3 points
Is the glass half full or half empty?” 2 3 4 5 6
1 Realist, or
Optimist,
Pessimist?
QUIZ
ADD UP YOUR
POINTS 6–9 POINTS
You’re an optimist. You have a positive outlook and
tend to see the glass half full.
10–14 POINTS
You’re a realist. You tend to see the world as it really is.
15–18 POINTS
You’re a pessimist. You have a negative outlook and
tend to see the glass half empty.
GOAL Describe your personality
LESSON Nothing seems to bother Donna. She just rolls with the punches.
Eric is not at all shy. He loves meeting and chatting with
new people.
Jason never wastes time at work and always gets a lot done.
You can trust Irene to be reliable. She always does a good job and
finishes it on time.
Andrés is always helpful. He’s aware of other people’s needs.
Jared rarely acts silly. He is
thoughtful and pays attention to
the important things.
Sonia’s a tennis champion, but she doesn’t think she’s better
than anyone else.
Isabelle and Anna enjoy chatting with each other.
She’s pretty easygoing.
He’s so outgoing.
He’s quite hardworking.
She’s very trustworthy.
He’s really considerate.
He’s pretty serious.
She’s quite modest.
They’re really talkative. B CLASSIFY THE VOCABULARY On the chart, classify the adjectives from the Vocabulary, and other adjectives you know, according to your opinion. Then discuss with a partner. Are always positive Can be either Are always negative Other adjectives polite
impolite punctual rude
friendly unfriendly nice
liberal conservative
interesting
intelligent
independent C GRAMMAR GERUNDS AND INFINITIVES: REVIEW AND EXPANSION
Remember: Gerunds and infinitives function as subjects, objects, and subject complements in
sentences. Subject: Sharing tasks with co-workers is helpful. Direct object of a verb: I avoid calling the doctor too often. Subject complement: Our dream is to make a trip to Africa next year. Some verbs can only be followed by gerunds as the object of the verb. Some verbs can
only be followed by infinitives. Others can be followed by either a gerund or an infinitive. We considered going to the picnic. NOT We considered to go to the picnic. They have decided to invite their teacher to the play. NOT They have decided inviting their teacher to the play. BUT She prefers going to the early show. OR She prefers to go to the early show.
For lists of verbs followed
by gerunds and / or
infinitives, see pages 123–124. For a list of expressions
followed by gerunds, see page 123. For a list of adjectives
followed by infinitives,
GOAL Discuss someone’s behavior
LESSON C 1:08 LISTEN TO CLASSIFY Listen to people describe other people’s behavior, using noun and pronoun objects before infinitives. Check the description(s) of each person, according to the opinions expressed. 1 Margaret is: a workaholic a pain in the neck a team player 2 Peter is: a people person a tyrant a pain in the neck
3 Tim is: a tyrant a pain in the neck a workaholic D GRAMMAR VERBS THAT REQUIRE A NOUN OR PRONOUN BEFORE AN INFINITIVE Remember: Some verbs can be followed directly by an infinitive. However, in the active voice, some
verbs must have a noun or pronoun object before the infinitive. Active Passive He ordered us to leave the office. (We were ordered to leave the office.) The sign warned drivers not to speed. (Drivers were warned not to speed.) We told them to be on time. (They were told to be on time.) She taught them to swim last year. (They were taught to swim last year.) Some verbs, such as would like, want, ask, expect, and need, are used with or without a noun or pronoun object in the active voice, depending on the meaning. Without an object With an object We’d like to eat healthier food. We’d like our children to eat healthier food, too. She wants to drive the new car. She wants me to drive the new car. Tom asked to see the director. Tom asked Emily to see the director.
Negative infinitives To make an infinitive negative, place not before the infinitive: They advised us not
to come late to
the meeting. Remember: To make a gerund negative, also
place not before the gerund: They complained
about not having
enough time.
A 1:07 GRAMMAR SPOTLIGHT Read how these four people describe other people’s behavior. Notice the spotlighted grammar.
I’ll never forget my high-school drama teacher, Mr. Mellon. He was such a tyrant! He used to force us to say our lines over and over until it drove us crazy. And if anyone forgot even one word, he would forbid them to go home until they had
learned the line. He would warn them to learn
every line perfectly by the next class, or they
couldn’t be in the play. Everyone hated him. He took all the fun out of drama.
Sarah Beth Linehan, 30 Melbourne, Australia Martina Braun, 21 Frankfurt, Germany
Cindy Yu, 27 Boston, USA Richard Rowan, 43 Saint Louis, USA
My colleague Lily at the travel agency where I work
is a real people person. Most of us prefer to do
everything by e-mail or online, but Lily invites all her clients (even the difficult ones!) to come in
to the office and tell her their dream vacation
ideas, and she tries to make those a reality for
them. And Lily’s such a team player. If one of us has too much to do, she offers to help. Everyone loves Lily.
My manager, Chris, is a real sweetheart. He wants all of us to succeed. And
he encourages us to learn new skills
so we can move up in the company. He’s also really kind and understanding. He permits us to work at home when we have a sick kid. You’ll never find a better boss than Chris!
I share an apartment with three roommates, but one of them, Erika, is an annoying pain in the neck! First, she’s a total workaholic. Between her studies and her after-school job, she’s
rarely here, and when she is, she just keeps working. My other
two roommates and I do all the chores: shop for groceries, cook, wash the dishes, and so on. When we complain that Erika’s not pulling her weight, she just asks us to do her chores because
she doesn’t have time! Time? It’s time for her to 
GOAL Compare perspectives on world problems
LESSON B 1:09 LISTEN FOR MAIN IDEAS Listen. Write the problem discussed in each conversation. Conversation 1 Conversation 2 Conversation 3 C 1:10 LISTEN FOR DETAILS Listen again. Circle T (true), F (false), or ND (not discussed). 1
a She says there aren’t a lot of newspaper articles about crime. b He thinks there’s nothing anyone can do about crime. T
T
F
F ND
ND 2
a She thinks breathing the air on planes can be dangerous. b He thinks international travel will spread the disease all over the world. T
T
F
F ND
ND 3
a He worries about terrorism in crowded places. b She thinks terrorism is caused by poverty. T
T
F
F ND
ND D UNDERSTAND MEANING FROM CONTEXT Read each quotation. Then listen again and
complete each statement. Conversation 1
1 When the woman says, “Crime is just out of control,” she means . a there’s a huge amount of crime b we have to control crime 2 When the man says, “What is the world coming to?” he is asking, a “Where in the world can we go to avoid crime?” b “What is the future of the world?” 3 When he says, “Better safe than sorry,” he is saying . a don’t tempt criminals by wearing jewelry b just stay home where it’s safe Conversation 2
4 When the man says, “I think I’m getting a little obsessed,” he means, a “I’m thinking about this way too much.” b “I’m afraid I’m getting sick.” 5 When she says, “Well, I don’t think that’s crazy,” she means . a he’s right to be worried b the disease is extremely bad
6 When the woman says, “It’s even more contagious,” she worries . a it could cause an epidemic b it won’t last for long Conversation 3
7 When the man says, “I don’t know about you, but I’m getting a little freaked out about
terrorism,” he’s really saying, a “Are you as scared as I am about terrorism?” b “I don’t know how to stop terrorism. Do you?” 8 When the woman says, “Well, that’s no way to live,” she means, a “You are going to die.” b “It’s impossible to live normally with that outlook.” 9 When she says, “It is what it is,” she means, a “What is it?” b “There’s nothing anyone can do about it.” 10 When the man says, “I guess I’m going a little overboard,” he means, a “I’m making this too important.” b “I’m not interested in this issue.
GOAL Discuss creative ways to achieve a goal
C DETERMINE THE MAIN IDEA Which statement expresses the main idea of the article? 1 There’s nothing worse than losing one’s vacation memories. 2 Creative thinking can help solve problems in unexpected ways. 3 Being a forgetful person can cause a lot of problems. D UNDERSTAND MEANING FROM CONTEXT Locate these adjectives and expressions in
the article and classify them as positive (+) or negative (-). Then, with a partner, try to
explain the meaning of each one in your own words. absent-minded
affectionate hopeless purposeful meaningless powerful useful
L 4
ESSON FACEBOOK SAVES THE DAY
WESTON—In a painful ending to an
otherwise glorious vacation, Phil and Virginia Cooper and their daughters, Miranda and Grace, arrived home without
the hundreds of vacation snapshots they had taken. “We’ll always have our memories,” said Phil, “but no pictures of our family’s activities or the beautiful New England
scenery and Cape Cod beaches where we
spent the last two weeks of our summer vacation.”
“Phil has always been a little absent- minded, but this takes the cake,” Virginia
said with an affectionate smile. “We were
getting settled in the car for the long drive home, and Phil got out to snap one last picture of the sunset. Then he set the
camera on the roof of the car while he
got his jacket out of the trunk.” Needless
to say, the camera fell off the car as they drove off. The family discovered the
camera was missing when they got home. Then Phil suddenly remembered placing
the camera on the top of the car. “I felt terrible for having been so
careless and was sure the situation was
hopeless. Days had passed. The camera would
have been lying on the ground through bad weather, or perhaps someone had found it and
taken it home,” Phil said. The camera case had the Coopers’ name and address, but the
camera hadn’t been in the case. Last weekend, while training for an
Ironman Triathlon event, Adam Secrest, 24, spotted the camera along the side of Callman Road near Barton Beach, Massachusetts. He picked it up, looked for a name, and finding none, stashed it in his car, thinking he would
try to locate the owner after his run. Once home, Secrest turned on the camera and
scrolled through the photos.
“I felt sort of like a snoop, but my
spying was purposeful,” he said. “I was
looking for clues to the owner’s identity, and I was optimistic that I would find
something.” Soon he came across a photo of
two young girls getting on a yellow
school bus with the words WESTON, NJ on the side. In a burst of creative
thinking, Secrest thought someone might recognize the girls, so he posted
the photo on Facebook and urged his
friends to share it, with this message: Do you know these kids from Weston, New Jersey? I found a
camera with this photo in Barton, Massachusetts, and want to locate
the owner. Please share. Facebook friends shared the photo hundreds of times. It was just a matter of time until it appeared on the Weston Community page and someone
recognized Miranda and Grace and
called Virginia Cooper, who contacted
Secrest, first through Facebook, and
then by phone. The camera arrived at
the Coopers’ house by mail yesterday. “Lots of people say social media is a meaningless waste of time, but here’s an
example of how powerful and useful it can be,” said Secrest.
Paragraph structure: Review
B PRACTICE The sentences below form a paragraph, but they are out of order. Write T next to the topic sentence, S next to each of the four supporting sentences, and C next to
the concluding sentence. Then, on a separate sheet of paper, put the sentences in order and rewrite the paragraph. 1 She took a night-shift job so she didn’t have to do much work. 2 Since they’re very intelligent, some figure out how to do less work. 3 Very intelligent people, or “brains,” are sometimes lazy people. 4 I had a friend who was a member of Mensa, an organization for people who are really smart. 5 To sum up, sometimes intelligent people use their intelligence to get out of doing work. 6 She could read novels most of the night and still get a paycheck. C PRACTICE Read the two paragraphs. Find and underline the topic sentence and the
concluding sentence in each paragraph.
Workaholics lead unbalanced
lives. They spend all their energy on work. They rarely take time to
relax and let their minds rest. I know, because my father was a workaholic, W
and he worked every day of the week. e hardly ever saw him. Even when
he was not at work, we knew he was
thinking about work. He seemed
never to think of anything else. In summary, not knowing how to
escape from work makes it difficult
for a workaholic to find balance in
his or her life.
WRITING MODEL
Terrorist acts take many forms, but all have one thing in common: the senseless
targeting of innocent people to achieve maximum pain, fear, and disruption. In one type of act, a terrorist kills or harms a
single individual for no apparent reason.
In others, terrorists detonate explosives or bombs in crowded markets or at public events. In still others, terrorists attack public transportation, harming or killing many people at once. In conclusion, although I generally have a positive outlook, I think it is just a matter of time
until terrorists harm me or people I know
and love.
The things that worry many people don’t worry me. For example, many people worry about war, epidemics, and natural catastrophes, such as storms and earthquakes. An individual person can’t do
anything about war, so why worry about it? I believe
in hoping for the best. Epidemics can be terrible, but
I trust in modern medicine and think scientists are doing everything they can to discover vaccines and
treatments for them. And storms and earthquakes are relatively rare and can’t be prevented, so it’s best
just to keep an optimistic outlook. Of course it would
be silly not to take precautions that can help. “Better safe than sorry,” as they say, but in most cases it’s best just to try to roll with the punches. D APPLY THE WRITING SKILL Choose one (or more) world problems that worry you. Write a paragraph describing your outlook and attitude about
the problem. Use the writing models in Exercise C as an example.
SELF-CHECK Does my paragraph have a topic sentence? Do the supporting sentences in my paragraph all relate to the topic? Do I have a concluding sentence?
WRITING SKILL Study the rules. A paragraph consists of sentences about one topic. The most important sentence in a paragraph is the topic sentence. It is often (though not always) the first sentence, and it introduces, states, or summarizes the
topic of a paragraph. For example: Workaholics lead unbalanced lives.
In formal or academic writing, all the supporting sentences that follow, surround, or precede a topic sentence—details, examples, and other
facts—must be related to the topic presented in the topic sentence.
If the last sentence of a paragraph isn’t its topic sentence, and especially
if the paragraph is a long one, writers sometimes end it with a concluding
sentence that restates the topic sentence or summarizes the paragraph. Concluding sentences commonly use phrases such as In conclusion or
In summary.
